---
layout: post
title: "Experience!"
title2: "Citi-Corp Services"
author: "Parismita Das"
categories: journal
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: citi.jpg
---

## Summer Internship as Software Developer

I did my 3rd year summer internship as a software developer at CitiCorp. My work basically contained modernizing the existing trading web application to a dashboard based application. 

The initial one week went enjoying the Pune lifestyle and networking. That was a good stage for me to learn about their organization culture and mingle with them well. It also made me realise the importance of communication skills and networking in industrial world.

Later on, as the orientations got over, we moved onto our respective departments and started our work and training, as guided by our managers. That phase was quite hectic for me initially, as I was doing Google summer of code at the same time of the internship. But later on I got hang of it. 

This summer experience, taught me a lot of things where time management would be the most important of them. Doing two internships at the same time is no childs play, but if scheduled properly, its not impossible. 

Overall, it was a great learning experience for me, as I started with zero knowledge in areas of webapps such as Angular and Rest-api. And by the end of the internship, I learned was a pro at technical skills needed for webapps. I also learned about how development cycle works and the importance of documentation and unit testing. I worked with the tradng department hence got to learn a lot about how the trading actually works and what is the role of banks in it, the maker-checker processes etc. 




